2 ContributorsJames Brown’s “Live at the Apollo” (33 1/3 excerpt) LyricsTHE CATALOGUE OF HITSFats Gonder ramps up his delivery from a salesmanlike incantation to rabid enthusiasm. He's got a singer to sell. What's the man he's introducing done with all that hard work? "Man that sang, 'I Go CRAZY'!" The snare smacks  as the  horn  section blares a G chord. It's  really "I'll   Go   Crazy,"  but Gonder's  determined  to out-country JB's  enunciation.   "Try   ME!" G-sharp. "YOU've Got  the  Power!" A. "THINK!" A-sharp. "If You  Want Me!"  B – except, oh  dear,  problem in  the trumpet section, either Teddy Washington or  Mack Johnson hits a bad note.  (What was this "If You Want Me"?   Not a  hit,  really-it had  been  the  flip-side   of "Bewildered." What was it doing in the  list of hits? It sounded good.)  "I Don't Mind!" C. "Be-WIL-dered!” C-sharp. (At  this  point, there's what  sounds like  the first  bit we've  lost from  the  tape – just a tiny  dropout, but  perhaps  there  was  something edited out  there.) "Million-dolla sella 'LOST Someone'!" Not  just a million-seller, mind you, but a million-dollar seller, at a time when a single usually cost 79 cents. "Lost Someone" had been  a No. 2 R&B hit,  but  given  that  it only got  up to No.  48 on  the  pop  charts,  that  particular distinction is unlikely. The  band hits a D. "The very latest  release, 'NIGHT Train'!" Well, no – "Shout and Shimmy" and "Mashed Potatoes U.S.A." had come out since "Night Train" – but it had  been his biggest hit  that  year. D-sharp.  "It's  everybody  'Shout and SHIMMY'!" We'll be hearing  more about  that in a minute. E.GOLD"Brown has perhaps a dozen 'gold' records to his credit,” the little unbylined puff piece in that week's New York Amsterdam News announced. That was pushing it – he'd only had 15 chart  singles by that  point. James  Brown didn't  have a certified gold single until 1972's "Get  On the Good  Foot," although King evidently didn't  bother with RIAA gold and platinum  certification. Still, for an Apollo audience, Gonder had a lot of familiar song titles to mention.

There are an awful lot of citations of chart numbers and dates in this book. Live with them. They are an essential  part of James  Brown's  art.  His  genius is the genius of rolls of tickets tom  off one by one, of money handed  over  for  records,  of the hit. The great James Brown  songs  are  popular,  the  popular  James  Brown songs are great. As George W.S. Trow wrote in another, darker  context, "It's  a Hit! Love it! It's a Hit.  It loves you because you love it because it's a Hit!" "You come to see my show," Brown sang. "That's why James Brown loves you  so." "This is a hit!," he  declared as the  tape rolled  for "Papa's Got a Brand  New  Bag"; he cut it out of the released  record, but persuaded some  of the other artists  whose  records he produced around that  time  to yell  the  same  thing, so  it  might work  its  magic  for them  too.

Look  at his singles  discography, and  ignore the  instrumentals, the duets,  the reissues,  the  throwaways on King's subsidiary label  Bethlehem, the  Christmas and novelty records-just concentrate on the songs he threw his weight  behind. A pattern emerges, or rather an unbroken block:  between "Money Won't  Change You” in July  1966  and  "Hot (I Need  To Be Loved, Loved, Loved,  Loved)" nine years later, James Brown had over sixty consecutive chart  hits. On  his own terms, he was an unstoppable champion, and  those  terms  were  people paying  to hear  him sing, and being  reassured that  what they  were  paying  for  was popular.

That's why he wanted  to make Live at the Apollo so badly:  he  could  demonstrate that  being  James Brown was itself a hit.  All he had  to do was get it on  tape.THE CATALOGUE OF  HITSBack at  the  Apollo,  Gonder's speech  has  been  setting up a couple  of subliminal effects. Starting with "You've Got  the  Power,"  and  running  through  "Bewildered,” there's  a steady 6/8 rhythm to the words he accents and the band's stabs – a tick-tock swing that's at pretty much the  same  tempo  as  Brown's  ballads.  There's also a hidden message in those emphases-Crazy-Me- You-Think-Want-Mind-Be-WILL-Lost-Night-Shimmy! This  is a night  for  total  abandon,  the suggestion goes; for thoughts  to become desires and then to simple be, through  sheer will; a night to be lost to shimmying.

(A young man named Danny Ray was waiting in the wings. He'd  just been hired, that week, as James Brown's valet; a few years later,  he'd  take over the emcee  job, which he still holds today, and his introductions to the James  Brown show  have been  patterned  on  Gonder's ever since.)

Gonder's still going. "Mr.  Dynamite"-Mr. Dynamite  had been the title of two movies, one from 1935, adapted from Dashiell Hammett's story "On the Make,” and  the  other   from  1941,  starring   Lloyd  Nolan   as Tommy N. Thornton (nice initials)-"the amazing Mr. Please, Please himself, the star of the show"-as if there could be any doubt, as Gonder is almost erupting with conviction-"JAMES BROWN AND  the  FAMOUS FLAMES!"THE SCRATCHThe horns buck--one, two, three, four, five, all on a G chord that's climbed  up an octave since Gonder started his litany.  It's  the  beginning of a fanfare  to announce the  Hardest Working Man  In Show  Business's  arrival: three  choruses of a perky  little  blues  riff. Brown  glides onto  stage  during the  third, and  probably does  some high-powered   footwork,  judging    by   the    screams. Twenty-nine years old and as flexible as a piece of yarn, he  can  dance  faster  and  harder than  anyone, rippling his body,  floating over  a wooden floor  as if it's  water-slicked  ice.

The perky  little  blues  riff has  a name,  although it was never  credited on  any  edition of Live at the Apollo until 2004: it's  "The  Scratch." Brown   and  his  band (including Les Buie on guitar  and Hubert Perry on bass, still with  the  band  at the  Apollo) had  recorded it as an instrumental on October 4, 1960. ("The Scratch" is also a close cousin of Henry Mancini's "Peter Gunn" theme, which  had  been  a hit for  Ray Anthony in 1959;  Duane Eddy's version  charted for  the  first  time  on  October 10,  1960.)  Brown's version  appeared as the  B-side  of "Hold It"  in January 1961,  and  the  band  played  it  as his entrance music  at least  through mid-1963.

As the band bats down the last note again and again, you can almost see James Brown's feet slide frictionlessly into position behind the microphone.I'LL GO CRAZYJames Brown steps up to the front  of the Apollo stage, gazes out over 1500 thoroughly warmed-up faces, and assesses matters  with a huge  holler.  He  feels all right, and he wants to make sure everybody knows it. The third time he announces  it, he gives the "all" an enormous melismatic rush, swooping around  at least twelve notes just to prove he can; then, as he takes a breath, guitarist Les Buie whacks sharply at his strings,  and we're into "I'll  Go  Crazy."THE MISSING SONGExcept we're  not: there's  almost certainly  at least one song missing from the set on Live at the Apollo. In those days, JB usually opened  his shows with his latest hit. In October  1962,  that  was "Shout  and Shimmy,"  which had made No. 16 on the R&B chart (No. 61 pop) back in August. Recorded  February  9, 1961 (the same day as "Lost  Someone"  and "Night Train"), it starts with the I-feel-all-right routine, and then proceeds to a truly shameless ripoff of the Isley Brothers' 1959 hit "Shout.”

(Really,  truly  shameless. The "I feel all right" business  is derived  from  the  beginning of the  second half of the Isleys' record, and the rest of the record is basically the  fast  parts  of "Shout," with  the  gospel  inflections removed and  the  word  "shimmy" added.  It wasn't  the last  time JB  would  appropriate the  Isleys'  work  as his own, either: "It's My Thing," his protegee Marva Whitney's  1969  single,  credited to J. Brown/M. Whitney, could  be charitably described as an answer  song  to the Isleys'  "It's Your  Thing." It  could   be  less  charitably described as a cover  that  changes the  pronouns.)

...4Embed