11 ContributorsStanding in the Shadows of Love Lyrics[Chorus]
Standing in the shadows of love
I'm getting ready for the heartaches to come
Can't you see me standing in the shadows of love?
I'm getting ready for the heartaches to come

[Verse 1]
I wanna run, but there's nowhere to go
'Cause heartaches will follow me, I know
Without your love, the love I need
It's the beginning of the end for me
'Cause you've taken away my reasons for living
When you pushed aside all the love I've been giving
Now wait a minute

[Pre-Chorus]
Didn't I treat you right now, baby
Didn't I?
Didn't I do the best I could now
Didn't I?

[Chorus]
So don't you leave me standing in the shadows of love
I'm getting ready for the heartaches to come
Don't you see me standing in the shadows of love?
Just trying my best to get ready for the heartaches to come
See The Four Tops LiveGet tickets as low as $66You might also like[Verse 2]
All alone, I'm destined to be
With misery my only company
It may come today, and it might come tomorrow
But it's for sure, I ain't got nothing but sorrow
Now don't your conscience kinda bother you?
How can you watch me cry after all I've done for you?
Now hold on a minute

[Pre-Chorus]
Gave you all the love I had now
Didn't I?
When you needed me, I was always there now
Wasn't I?

[Verse 3]
(Standing in the shadows of love
Getting ready for the heartaches to come)
I'm trying not to cry out loud (Standing in the shadows of love)
You know crying, it ain't gonna help me now (Getting ready for the heartaches to come)
What did I do to cause you all this grief?
Now, what did I say to make you wanna leave?
Now, wait a minute

[Pre-Chorus]
Gave my heart and soul to you, baby
Didn't I?
And didn't I always treat you good now
Didn't I?
[Chorus]
I'm standing in the shadows of love
I'm getting ready for the heartaches to come
Don't you see me standing in the shadows of love?
Trying my best to get ready for the heartaches to come

Oh, I'm standing in the shadows of love
I'm getting ready for the heartaches to come1Embed