1 Contributor5 Best Songs of All Time from Entertainment World Lyrics 
It is said that the soul feeds on the music. Music has a prestigious existence since the very beginning of time. It presents a whole new exposure to things. What you cannot say in a word, you can say in the music. The music has been a great tool by the revolutionaries to inspire the audience. The music has been a great tool for the tributes as well as the honors. It is present in every sphere of life. But with the passage of time, music has become a separate industry that has been revolutionizing the entertainment world in the best way possible. Since the inception of music as a separate industry, thousands of songs have been disclosed. All of them are good in their own way. All of them are great for the audience. But there are a few that never faded. Singers in their Wiley X Guard Advanced have been revolutionizing and fascinating the audience. They are still as amazing and as appealing as they were back in time for the audience. They have taken the industry to a whole different level with their amazing contribution to the entertainment world.  Here are 5 all-time top-rated songs that are still inspiring the audience at best.
1.Bohemian Rhapsody – Queen.
The Bohemian Rhapsody was released back in 2009 but the lyrics of the songs were written back in 1975. This is one of the finest songs ever released in the industry. This song was presented by the Queen. It was one of the finest music symbols of its time. It gave a lot of collections All of them were amazing. All of them were appealing to the audience. They still are casting the influence and amazement to the audience. The lyrics of the song have a unique vibe that amazes the listener. Apart from that, the composition of the song was greater as well. It was a good combination of lyrics as well as a composition that set the precedence of new norms in the industry.
2.Stairway to the Heaven –Led Zeppelin
Stairway to Heaven was written by Jimmy Page and Robert Plant. This song was sung by Led Zeppelin in a movie named The Song Remains the Same. This song was very revolutionary and very amazing at that time. It was released back in 1971 when the entertainment industry was passing through a transition. It was running high on the lyrical aesthetics and enrichment by the renowned singers. One amongst them was Led Zeppelin who presented one of the finest collections to the audience. That collection is still amazing for the audience. The Stairway to Heaven has become an icon in the music world. 
3.Imagine – John Lennon & The Plastic Ono Band
John Lennon in his RX Protective Eyewear broke the barrier of musical enrichment with his release of Imagine. Yes, imagine was the most prestigious collection released by him. It was released back in 1971 when the music industry was counting on the amazing singer and lyricists like John Lennon. Imagine broke the stereotypes of conventional music. It was something that the music world hadn’t witnessed before. It was something that the audience adored a lot.   They adore it at present as well. They are still an inspiration for the singers and well as for the listeners.
4.Written in the Stars – Tinie Tempah
Written in the Stars was very unique as well as a very amazing song. It still is an amazing song. The vibe presented in the song was very unique as well as very amazing. It was released in 2020. It was sung by Tinie Tempah with a collaboration of a features artist Eric Turner. The song was released in Disc-Overy Album. It was one of the fines music albums of its time. It still is inspiring the audience in the entertainment world.
5.Faded – Alan Walker
The amazement of The Faded would never fade perhaps. This song was presented by Alan Walker back in 2015. It is still as fresh and as soothing as it was back in time. It owes so many nominations as well as an award at its disposal as well. The song took the much world on a whole different level where the things are very appealing as well as very amazing.Embed