4 ContributorsOnce You Get Started LyricsAhhhhhh, ah, ah, ah, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Ahhhhhh, ah, ah, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Yeah, yeah

Once you get started
Oh, it's hard to stop
You can't stop, you just can't stop
When you get down, y'all
When you get down, ain't no turning back, no

Everybody party hardy to get back in the groove, ah
I like the way you do it, the way you do it
Ah, I like the way you move

It's a good thing, hear the funky sound
Oh, oh
Everybody, let's get on down
You can do it like you've never done before
Hey, hey, eh.  Hey, hey
I just want you to know that

Once you get started
Oh, it's hard to stop, yeah
Just can't stop, yeah
When you get down, y'all
When you get down, ain't no turning back, no
You might also likeEverybody party hardy to get back in the groove, yeah
I love the way you do it, the way you do it, hmmm
I like the way you move, yeah

It's the new thing when you know that you're getting on down, yeah
Everybody, come on, y'all, and get down with me
Yeah, yeah
You can do it like you've never done before
Yeah, yeah

Ah, ah, ahhhhhh, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah
Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh
Yeah, yeah
Ahhhhhhhhhhh, ah, ah, ah

Once you get started
Oh, it's hard to stop.  Sing
When you get down, y'all
When you get down, ain't no turning back, no

Now that you've got down, we just wanna say
If you dig that funky, funky music
Come on, move it this way

Come on and move.  (Oooh.)
Come on and groove
(Come on and move.) Hey, hey, eh, eh, eh
(Come on and groove.) You got to move, you got to move too
(Come on and move.) Whoa, move
(Come on and groove.) Baby, you got, you got to get down
(Come on and move.) Whoa, oh, oh, oh, yeah
(Come on and groove.) Everybody party, move
(Come on and move.) Ohhhhh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
(Come on and groove.) You can feel it
Do you feel it?  Do you feel it?
(Come on and move.) Everybody party, party
(Come on and groove.) Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
(Come on and move.)
(Come on and groove.) Whoa, oh.  Whoa, oh.  I got to
(Come on and move.) You can feel it, baby
That's the only wayEmbed