2 ContributorsSweat It Off (The A Side) LyricsSweat it off! Sweat it off!
Sweat it off! (Sweat)
Sweat it off! Sweat it off!
Sweat it off! (Sweat)
Sweat it off! Sweat it off!
Sweat it off! (Sweat)
Sweat it off! Sweat it off!
Sweat it off! (Sweat)

We got a sound that you all can sweat to
It's the sound of the P-A-R-T-Y crew
Plus everyone here [?] you all get wet
And the wetness you feel will be sweat!
I'm six-foot two with wavy hair
My light green eyes make the ladies stare
I have a slim built, sexy as can be
All thе young ladies want to be with me
A kiss, wеll, I'll make them blush
The rest of me they cannot wait to touch
And when they get their chance, they always come back
To have another one of Fleetwood's mac attack!
I take a D with J, an M-A-R-K
I put a K at the end and bring him on again

At five-foot-nine, 175
For my height and weight I'm the finest alive
Some women tell me I'm worth my weight in gold
They'll never turn me in for money I'm told
And if you take a poll, I'm sure you'll see
That nine-tenths of the women want to be with me
And if I had as much money as I've had women
Then Beverly Hill is where I'd be livin'
L7, my buddy, my pal, my friend
Grab a mic and come on in!
You might also likeWell I'm 145 in the streets
But I'm 95 pounds between the sheets
'Cause I'll rock ya in and I'll rock ya out
I'm guaranteed to make you scream and shout
Because I'm the one that they call L7
The funkiest square sent from heaven
'Cause we're back to back, wall to wall
We're guaranteed to make ya freaks a-fall
Big brother, hit me right on time!
A-big brother, with the super rhyme!

I am the man with the golden voice
I'm sometime called the ladies choice
I'm too light to fight, I'm too thin to win
I said Cognac, I don't drink no gin
I'm 28 in the waist and I'm oh so smooth in the face
I dress to a T, I rock you viciously
And I go by the name of the Master C!

Oh when the music gets hot, there's a rumble and a boom
Party Crew comes alive to rock the room
There's one type of music that'll make you move
And I'm talkin' 'bout the music that'll make you groove
Funk! Rockin' the house
We're talkin' about funk
Rock, rock it on, rock it on
Said mixers, speakers, mics, turntables
I can rock 'em all night because I'm able
Dancefloor, dance more, we can dance for sure
I don't care if your status is a-rich or poor
'Cause when you come to a party where I'm rockin' the house
You get what you pay for, that's what I'm about
And any MC that wants to battle me
Must be lookin' for World War 3
'Cause with my Hush Puppies, Schoolboys and Izod gear
You get what you pay for 'cause you wanna hear

As the music comes from the heart of Bos-town
Roxbury, yeah, a ghetto town
But to live in the ghetto you got to be rough
'Cause the streets are hard, the city is tough
Your pockets are bare, refrigerator's empty
You don't know the taste of meat
You got telephone bills, rent's overdue
They wanna put you out in the street
You got one, two, maybe three or four
Little itty-bitty mouths to feed
They already have every damn cent you got
I said we are the ones in need
The only thing that you have today
That you could really say is yours
Is the rhythm rock rap, the body-rock beat
And the funk that really rocks the floor
So if you see your chance to break, you better grab on
You won't get a second chance, might not live that long
So sisters and brothers out in the street
Make that break but be unique
And don't let the man tell you what to do
Only answer to one and that one is you
Yeah, I'm out here tryin' to hustle and deal
I'm gonna do the best I can without having a steal
I'm gonna live my life by just bein' me
And part of my life is bein' this damn good MC
But it's hard bein' heard when you're from Bos-town
'Cause people don't think we know how to throwdown!
And people from out of state tell me
That Boston can't rock like New York City
But I tell 'em, and I make it loud and clear
That you can't say that if you're not from here
'Cause in New York, Boston, Philly, DC
Our music rhyme rocks everybody
We rock the parties with hardcore funk
Can't deal with rock, new wave or punk
Like white on rice or like cheese and mice
Like an echo that makes you hear everything twice
You can't separate the funk from us
Because rappin' with funk is a must
And if you wanna hear the story of a musical crime
Let [?] rock you with a story line!

When I was young I was a hard rock
Growing up in the [?] I couldn't be stopped
They call me Outlaw but I did no crime
But on the microphone is where I did my time
I went into a club, I crashed down the door
Then I grabbed the mic and I got on the floor
The reason why no one was dancin' at all
'Cause the ladies was [?] brothers on the wall
And the owner of the club said I'll make you a deal
You make 'em dance, the money you steal
So I took a deep breath and got ready to go
And this is what I told 'em 'bout disco
It was cool back then but it's gone now
And funk is the only way to throw down
So when you come in the club you don't play the role
Wearin' your double-knit shirt and your fake gold
So put your hands together, I want you to say
That funk is the only way
Say (Funk is the only way!)

Now that you all are beginning to sweat
We're gonna get to the best part yet
If you forget everything that you heard today
You just remember what the Party Crew told you to say
Funk through breakfast
Funk through snack time
Funk through lunch
And funk through naptime
Funk through dinner
We're gonna funk 'til four
Get up at five and funk some more!

Like an earthquake we'll rock this place
As we rap to the beat of the body rock bass
The drums keep our words on time
And the guitar makes you move your behind
I need some help, I'm locking the rhythm, please
So bring the locksmith, the man with the keys
You put it all together and you got a creation
One hell of a sound that will rock the nation
Fleetwood (Bang!), with a boom
Hey, come on, help us rock the room!
Mark-K (Bang!), on the floor
Hey, help us rock it just a little bit more
L7 (Bang!), with the groove
Hey, guaranteed to make your body move
Master C (Ha ha), we got a bet
Hey, I bet we made everybody sweat
Sweat, sweat, sweat

Party it out y'all, party it out
New York, sweatin' it off
Detroit, sweatin' it off
LA, sweatin' it off
Oww, Boston, sweatin' it off
We got a-DC, sweatin' it off
Chicago is sweatin' it off
Miami is sweatin' it off
Ah, Big Ben, London sweatin' it off
We got Chinatown sweatin' it off
North Carolina is sweatin' it off
We got the Indies man sweatin' it off
Ah, Georgia sweatin' it off
Don't forget Boston sweatin' it off
Or the islands are sweatin' it off man
Ah, Detroit is sweatin' it off
Everybody sweatin' it off
A-just, a-just sweat (Keep sweatin' it off, okay)
Just sweat, sweatin' it off
It feels good, it feels good to me (Ah yeah)
No baby, we're not a gang, we're a crew
We're the Party Crew
Sweat baby! Sweat baby, sweat off those jeans!

Ooh, ouch, oh my God
Ahh, ooh
Ahh that Kevin Fleetwood and the Cadillac sound
Oh, they just make me wet all over
Ahh, ooh!
Ooh baby, yeah
Ah, Kevin! Oh!Embed