6 ContributorsJust To Be Close To You LyricsJust to be close to you, girl
Just for the moment, (Well.)
Just for an hour
Just to be close to you, girl, yeah
Oh well.  Ah, baby

Aw
You know I've been through so many changes in my life, girl
Aw, I've been up real high where I thought I didn't need anybody
Aw, and then again I've been down real low where there was no one in my life who needed me
Aw, and I found that material things I thought had so much value
Aw, girl, didn't really have any value at all
Then I was a lonely man
A man with no direction, with no purpose, with no one to love and no one to love me for, for me
Aw, girl then you, then you came into my life
You made my jagged edges smooth
You made my, whoo!, my direction so clear
And you, aw, woman, you became my purpose, my reason for living
Girl, you see, you're my heart, you're my soul, you're my stone inspiration, baby
Oh, that's why I'm standing here singing and opening my arms to you
I wanna say, child, why don't you

Take my hand
Aw, we'll live and love forever, yeah
Take my hand
Mmmm, we'll be alone, you and me, yeah
Take my hand
Girl, we'll live our lives together, yeah
Together.  (Mmmm, together, yeah.)
Aw, aw, aw, together.  (Together.)
See Commodores LiveGet tickets as low as $46You might also likeJust to be close to you, girl
Just for the moment, baby, (Well.)
Just for an hour
Just to be close to you, girl
Hey, hey
Mmmm, hmmm, hmmm.  Mmmm, mmmm, mmmm

I've been out there searching so very long, baby
Searching to find somebody just like you
And for some folks, it takes a lifetime, sugar
To have in this world a dream come true
Why don't you

Take my hand
Oh, we'll live and love forever, yeah
Take my hand
Girl, we'll be alone, you and me
Take my hand
We'll spend our lives together
Together.  (Together.)
Aw, aw, aw, together.  (Oh yeah, oh yeah, together.)
Aw

Just to be close to you, girl
Just for the moment, (Aw, just for the moment.)
Aw, just for an hour
Just to be close to you, girl
I need you, baby
To make love, to be loved by you, baby
To have your warm body close to mine
To whisper words that make you feel like a woman
Girl, I know our love will stand the test of time

Just to be close to you, girl
For the moment, baby.  For the moment, baby
For the moment, baby.  For the...
Shoo, doo, doo, doo, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah
Oooh, oooh, oooh, oooh
Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah

Eh, girl, I wanna say closer and closer
Girl, please hold me closer
My heart is still burning
Girl, you got me yearning for your love
Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah1Embed