30 ContributorsThe Rain Lyrics[Chorus]
I saw you (And him, and him) walking in the rain
You were holding hands, and I'll never be the same

[Verse 1]
Tossing and turning, another sleepless night
The rain crashes against my window pane
Jumped into my car, didn't drive too far
That moment I knew I would never be the same

[Chorus]
'Cause I saw you (And him, and him) walking in the rain
You were holding hands, and I'll never be the same
I saw you (And him, and him) walking in the rain
You were holding hands, and I'll never be the same

[Verse 2]
Now here you are begging to me
To give our love another try
Girl, I love you and I always will
But, darling, right now I've got to say goodbye

[Chorus]
'Cause I saw you (And him, and him) walking in the rain
You were holding hands, and I'll never be the same
I saw you (And him) walking in the rain
You were holding hands, and I'll never be the same
You might also like[Outro]
Hey, hey, baby, how you doin'? Come on in here
Got some hot chocolate on the stove waitin' for ya
Listen, first things first, let me hang up that coat
Yeah, 'n' how's your day today, did ya miss me?
Oh, you did, yeah, I missed you, too
I missed you so much I followed you today
That's right, now close your mouth, 'cause you cold busted
That's right, now sit down here
Sit down here, so upset with you, I don't know what to do
And my first impulse was to run up on you and do a Rambo
Whip out the jammy and flat-blast both of you
But I ain't wanna mess up this 3700 dollar lynx coat
So instead, I chilled, that's right, chilled
Then I went to the bank, took out every dime
And then I went and canceled all those credit cards
Yeah, all your charge accounts, yeah
I stuck you up for every piece of jewelry I ever bought you
Yeah, that's right, everything, everything, didn't fly with me
Naw, don't go, you ever go, don't go looking in that closet
'Cause you ain't got nothing in there
Everything you came here with is packed up
And waiting for you in the guest room
That's right, what was you thinking about, huh?
What were you tryin' to prove, huh? You's with the Juice
'N' I gave you silk suits, Gucci handbags, blue diamonds
I gave you things you couldn't even pronounce
Now I can't give you nothin' but advice
'Cause you're still young, that's right, you're still young
I hope you learn a valuable lesson from all this, you know?
Gonna find someone like me one of these days
Until then, know what you gotta do?
You gotta get on outta here with that alley-cat-coat wearin'
Hush-puppy-shoe-wearing crumb cake I saw you with
'Cause you dismissed! That's right, silly rabbit
Trix are made for kids, don't you know that?
You without me: like cornflake without the milk
It's my world, you just a squirrel, tryin' to get a nut
Now get on outta here! Ah! Don't touch that coat!Embed