98 ContributorsO.P.P. Lyrics[Intro: Treach]
Arm me with harmony
Dave, drop a load on 'em

[Verse 1: Treach]
O.P.P., how can I explain it? I'll take it, frame by frame it
To have y'all all jumpin', shoutin', sayin' it
O is for "other," P is for "people," scratch your temple
The last P, well, that's not that simple, huh
It's sort of like, oh well, another way to call a cat a kitten
It's five little letters that are missing here
You get it on occasion if the other party isn't gaming
It seems I gotta start the explaining, bust it
You ever had a girl and met her on a nice hello?
You get her name and number, then left feeling real mellow
You get home, wait a day, she's what you wanna know about
Then you call up and it's her girlfriend's or her cousin's house?
It's not a front, an F to the R to the O to the N to the T
It's just her boyfriend's at her house (Oh, that's why she's scary)
It's O.P.P. time, other people's, but you get it
There's no room for relationships, there's just room to hit it
How many brothers out there know just what I'm getting at?
Who think it's wrong 'cause I was splitting and co-hitting that?
Well, if you do, that's O.P.P., and you're not down with it
But if you don't, here's your membership
You might also like[Chorus]
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (Every last homie)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (All the homies)

[Verse 2: Treach]
Well, for the ladies, O.P.P. means something gifted
The first two letters the same, but the last is something different
It's the longest, loveliest, lean, I call it the leanest
It's another five-letter word rhyming with "cleanest" or "meanest"
I won't get into that, I'll do it, uh, sort of properly
I'll say the last P, hmm, stands for "property"
Now lady, here comes a kiss
Blow a kiss back to me, now tell me exactly
Have you ever known a brother who had another like a girl or wife?
And you just had to stop a toast 'cause he looked just that nice?
You looked at him, he looked at you, and you knew right away
He had someone, but he was gonna be yours anyway
You couldn't be seen with him at all and still you didn't care
'Cause in a room behind a door, no one but y'all are there
When y'all are finished, y'all can leave and only y'all would know
And y'all could throw that skeleton bone right in the closet door
Now don't be shy, 'cause if you're down, I want your hands up high
Say O.P.P. (O.P.P.), I like to say with pride
Now when you do it, do it well and make sure that it counts
You're now down with a discount
[Chorus]
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (Every last lady)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (All the ladies)

[Verse 3: Treach]
A scab tried to O.P.P. me, I had a girl and she knew that
Matter fact, her and my girl was partners that
Had a fall-out, disagreement, yeah, an argument
She tried to do me, so we did it in my apartment, bust it
That wasn't the thing, it must've been the way she hit the ceiling
'Cause after that she kept on coming back and catching feelings
I said, "Let's go, my girl is coming, so you gotta leave"
She said, "Oh no, I love you, Treach," I said, "Now, child, please
You gots to leave, come grab your coat right now, you gotta go"
I said, "Now look, you choose the stairs or choose the stair window
This was a fling, a little thing you shouldn't have brought your heart
'Cause you know I was O.P.P., hell, from the very start"
Come on, come on, now let me tell you what it's all about
When you get down, you can't go 'round runnin' off at the mouth
That's rule number one in this O.P.P. establishment
You keep your mouth shut and it won't get back to her or him
Exciting, isn't it? A special kinda business
Many of you will catch the same sorta O.P.P. messing with
Him or her, for sure, I'm going to admit it
When O.P.P. comes, damn skippy, I'm with it
[Chorus]
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (This whole party)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
You down with O.P.P.? (Yeah, you know me)
Who's down with O.P.P.? (This whole party)

[Outro: Treach]
Break it down30Embed