32 ContributorsCan We Talk? Lyrics[Verse 1]
Last night, I, I saw you standing
And I started, started pretending
That I knew you, and you knew me, too

[Pre-Chorus 1]
And just like a Roni, you were too shy
But you weren't the only 'cause so was I
And I dreamed of you ever since
Now, I build up my confidence
Girl, next, next time you come my way
I'll know just what to say

[Chorus]
Can we talk for a minute?
Girl, I want to know your name
Can we talk for a minute?
Girl, I want to know your name

[Verse 2]
I started to write you letters
But I wanted to be more clever
I wanted to get down and sweet talk you
Hey, baby

[Pre-Chorus 2]
But just like a baby, I could not talk
And I tried to come closer, but could not walk
And I think of it every night
How I just could not get it right, oh
If we ever come close again
I'll know what I'll say then, yeah
You might also like[Chorus]
Can we talk for a minute? (Can we talk, baby, can we talk for a minute?)
Girl, I want to know your name (I wanna know your name)
Can we talk for a minute? (Can we talk for a minute, baby?)
Girl, I want to know your name

[Bridge]
Oh, girl
One more chance with you again
I will not let it go
Oh, please, give me just one more chance for love, love, love, love

[Chorus]
Can we talk for a minute? (Yeah, yeah, baby)
Girl, I want to know your name (I wanna know your name)
Can we talk for a minute? (Can we talk for a minute, baby?)
Girl, I want to know your name (Yeah, I want to know, oh, baby, baby, baby)

[Outro]
(Can we talk?) Come on and talk to me, baby
Come on and talk to me, baby
(Girl, I want to know your name) Said, I wanna, I wanna know, I want to know your name
(Can we talk for a minute?) Now, can we talk for a minute? Come on and talk to me, baby
(Girl, I want to know your name) Come on, baby, come on, baby, yeah
(Can we talk for a minute?) I said, can we talk for a minute? Come on and talk to me, baby
See, I wanna know
You better tell me your name, baby
(Can we talk for a minute?) I said, talk to me for a minute
Come on and talk for a minute
I wanna know, I wanna know
I want to know your name
(Can we talk for a minute?) Talk to me for a minute
Come on and talk for a minute
Come on, come on, come on and talk to me, yeah
(Can we talk)6Embed