64 ContributorsKeep Their Heads Ringin’ Lyrics[Intro: Dr. Dre]
Yeah, what up, this is Dr. Dre
The party's goin' on
Thank God it's Friday

[Refrain: KRS-One]
(Buck buck buck buck booyakasha!)
(Buck buck buck buck booyakasha!)
(Buck buck buck buck booyakasha!)
(Buck buck buck buck booyakasha!)

[Hook: Dr. Dre]
Keep their heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong
Ring-a-ding ding ding dong)
Keep their heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong
Ring-a-ding ding ding (uh, yeah) dong)
[Verse 1: Dr. Dre & Nancy Fletcher]
Hey you! Sittin over there
Say what?
(You better get up out of your chair)
That's right
(And work your body down)
Yeah
(No time to funk around, 'cause we gon')
Funk you right on up
So get up, get a move on and get your groove on
It's the D-R-E the spectacular
In a party I go for your neck, so call me "Blacula"
As I drain a nigga's jugular vein
And maintain to leave blood stains, so don't complain
Just chill, listen to the beats I spill
Keepin' it real enables me to make another mill,
Still, niggas run up and try to kill at will
But get popped like a pimple, so call me Clearasil
I wipe niggas off the face of the Earth since birth
I've been a bad nigga, now let me tell you what I'm worth
More than a stealth bomber, I cause drama
The enforcer, music floats like a flying saucer
Or a 747 jet, never forget
I'm that nigga that keeps the hoes panties wet
The mic gets smoked once you hear the beat kick
With grooves so funky, they come with a Speed Stick
So check the flavor that I'm bringin'
The motherfuckin' D-R-E ah keep they motherfuckin' heads ringin'
You might also like[Hook: Dr. Dre]
(Ring ding dong (uh)
Ring-a-ding ding (yeah) ding dong)
Keep their heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong
Ring-a-ding ding ding dong)

[Verse 2: Dr. Dre]
1, 2 for the crew, 3, 4 for the dough
5 for the hoes (hoes!) 6, 7, 8 for Death Row
Mad niggas about to feel the full effect of intellect
So I can collect respect, plus a check
Now I fin' to get into my mental
Will take care of this business I need to attend to 'cause my rent's due
And this rap shit's my meal ticket
So you God damn right I'ma gonna kick it or get evicted
I bring terror like Stephen King
A black Casanova, running niggas over like Christine
When I rock the spot with the flavor I got
I get plenty of ass, so call me an ass-tronaut
As I blast past another nigga's ass that thought he was strong
But I smoke him like grass, just like Cheech and Chong
When I flow, niggas know it's time to take a hike
'Cause I grab the mic and flip my tongue like a dyke
I got rhymes to keep you enchanted
Produce a smokescreen with the funky green to keep your eyes slanted
So check the flavor that I'm bringin'
The motherfuckin' D-R-E ah keep they motherfuckin' heads ringin'
[Hook: Dr. Dre]
(Ring ding dong (yeahhh)
Ring-a-ding ding ding dong)
Keep their heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong
Ring-a-ding ding ding (ha ha) dong)
Yeah, c'mon

[Bridge]
If you want to get on down (uh, yeahhh)
You gotta get on down (c'mon, ha ha)
Just get on down (it's like that)

[Verse 3: Dr. Dre]
Debonair with flair, I scare wear and tear
Without a care, running shit as if I was a mayor
But I ain't no politician, no competition
Sending all opposition to see a mortician
I'm up front, never in the backdrop
Step on stage and get faded just like a flat-top
Your rhyme sounds like you bought 'em at Stop 'n Go
Dre came to wax you so, just call me Mop and Glo
Many tried to, but just can't rock with
I'm 6'1", 225 of pure chocolate
Your chances of jacking me are slim, G
'Cause I rock from summer 'till Santa comes down the chimney
Ho ho ho, and so, as I continue to flow
'Cause yo, I'm just a fly negro, So
Check the flavor that I'm bringin'
The motherfuckin' D-R-E ah keep they motherfuckin' heads ringin'
[Hook: Dr. Dre]
(Ring ding dong (yeahhhh)
Ring-a-ding (uh) ding ding dong)
I keep their motherfuckin' heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong (yea, uh)
Ring-a-ding ding ding dong)
I keep their heads ringin'
(Ring ding dong (get it, get it)
Ring-a-ding ding (get it) ding dong)
I keep their heads ringin'!
(Ring ding dong (ha ha, yeahhhh)
Ring-a-ding ding ding (uh, c'mon) dong)

[Bridge]
If you want to get on down (yeah Death Row back up in that ass. For the one nine nine to the nickle)
You gotta get on down (so all you motherfuckers out there tryna get with this)
Just get on down, ho ohhhh (don't even try it, couldn't see us with binoculars)
If you want to get on down (no diggity, ha ha)
You gotta get on down (yeah, uh, I know you're bobbin' your head)
Just get on down ('cause I could see, uh)

[Outro]
I know you're bobbin' your head
'Cause I could see ya
You can't see me, ha ha
Yeah
Death Row, let me know you in the house (Beyotch!)
Ha ha
Yeah, that's right, we out26Embed