61 ContributorsBeen Around The World Lyrics[Intro: Ma$e]
Yo, yo, this Ma$e, you know what I'm saying?
You got niggas that don't like me for whatever reason
You got niggas that don't wanna see me rich
You got niggas that's mad 'cause I'm always with they bitch
Then you got niggas that just don't like me
You know the— those PHD niggas
But you know, I pop a lot of shit, but I back it up, though
See, it's a difference, a lot of niggas pop shit
But a lot of niggas don't make hits
But it's like this whole Bad Boy shit
We come to bring it to y'all niggas
Me, B.I., Puff, Lox, whoever, Black Rob
If you want to dance, we dance

[Verse 1: Ma$e]
Now, trick, what? Lace who? That ain't what Ma$e do
Got a lot of girls that'd love to replace you
Tell you to your face, boo, not behind your back
Niggas talk shit, we never mind that
Funny, never find that, Puff a dime stack
Write hot shit and make a nigga say, "Rewind that"
Niggas know, we go against the Harlem Gigolo
Get your ho, lick her low, make the bitch hit the door
I represent honeys with money, fly guys with gems
Drive with the tints that be thirty-five percent
Hoes hope I lay, so I look both ways
Cop say it's okay, my tint smoke gray
No way nigga leave without handing me my shit
Got plans to get my Lamb' and my 6
Niggas out the pen'll understand this shit
Pop champagne like I won a championship
You might also like[Chorus: The Notorious B.I.G. & Diddy]
Been around the world and I, I, I
And we been playa hated (Say what?)
I don't know and I don't know why
Why they want us faded (Hahaha)
I don't know why they hate us (Yeah)
Is it our ladies
Or our drop Mercedes? (Uh-huh, uh, uh)
Baby, baby

[Verse 2: Diddy]
I was in one bedroom dreaming of a million
Now I'm in beach houses, cream to the ceiling (That's right)
I was a gentleman living in tenements
Now I'm swimming in all the women that be tens (Woo)
Went from Bad Boys to the Crushed Linen Men
Now my dividends be the new Benjamins
Hoes of all complexions, I like cinnamon
Ma$e you got some hoes? Well, nigga, send 'em in
What you waiting for? Let the freak show begin
How they came in a truck? (Nah, Puff, that's a Benz)
Mercedes, c'mere baby, you don't like the way (Come on)
It's hot and hazy, never shady, you must be crazy
It's ridiculous how you put your lips on this
Don't kiss right there, girlfriend, I'm ticklish (Uh-huh, hahaha)
And I be switching Vs with a wrist full of Gs
Nigga please, I'm the macaroni with the cheese
[Chorus: The Notorious B.I.G. & Diddy]
Been around the world and I, I, I
And we been playa hated (Say what?)
I don't know and I don't know why
Why they want us faded (Uh, that's right)
I don't know why they hate us (Haha)
Is it our ladies
Or our drop Mercedes? (Yeah, uh, uh)
Baby, baby

[Verse 3: Diddy & Ma$e]
Now Puff rule the world even though I'm young
I make it my biz to see that all ladies cum (Yeah)
Get 'em all strung from the tip of my tongue
Lick 'em places niggas wouldn't dare put they faces (Come on)
Before I die, hope I remake a flow by
In the brand new treasure on a old try
Now when my throat dry, even when I smoke la
Eat the mami chocha and drive her loca
We never ride far, pack five in a car
Save money for the drinks, I'm about to buy the bar (Yeah)
And everywhere I drive I'm a star
Little kids all on the corner scream, "That's my car!"
It was days couldn't be fly, now I'm in a T.I. 
Come in clubs with B.I., now a nigga V.I. (Uh-huh)
Rock tons of gold, enough money I fold
Roll the way you wanna roll, break a hundred at the toll, come on
[Chorus: The Notorious B.I.G. & Diddy]
Been around the world and I, I, I
And we been playa hated (Yeah, yeah, uh-huh, we been playa hated)
I don't know and I don't know why
Why they want us faded (Why, why they want us fated?)
I don't know why they hate us (Why they hate us?)
Is it our ladies
Or our drop Mercedes? (Is it our ladies, say what, yeah?)
Baby, baby
Been around the world and I, I, I
And we been playa hated (You know sometimes I got to ask myself)
I don't know and I don't know why
Why they want us faded (Why is there so much jealous in the world?)
I don't know why they hate us
Is it our ladies (Don't look at mine, get yours)
Or our drop Mercedes?
Baby, baby

[Skit: Trevor Jones, The Madd Producer & The Madd Rapper]
Okay, after these messages we'll be back with the Madd Rapper and his brother, the Madd Producer, after this
Okay, just sit back, relax and enjoy yourself
We'll get you through this, take a sip of water
Deep breath, that'll do it
And welcome back as you can see (You got the check though?)
I'm Trevor Jones and I'm sitting in
I've been conversing with the Madd Rapper and he's still pretty mad (Did you get the check though?)
But this time he brought someone else with him
And quite frankly (Yeah, yeah) he's even madder (You got that right), um
Mr. Producer (Yo, you know what I'm saying?) why are you so mad?
Yo, I— I'ma— I'ma keep it real simple for you (Yeah, t-t-t-t-t-tell them niggas why you mad, son)
Tell them niggas why you mad, son (Okay, gentlemen, please, one at a time)
Tell them why you mad, son, word up, tell 'em why you mad son! (You know what I'm saying?)
I— I be— I be— I be— I be— I been here for the culture, you know what I'm saying?
I don't— I don't— I don't— I don't—
I don't be recognizing all that new jack shit (Yeah, we don't play, we don't play that shit, you know what I'm saying?)
Please Mr. Producer, no foul language, Mr. Rapper, please calm down (That nigga be on some bullshit, you know what I'm saying?)
He ain't no real producer, you know what I'm sayin'?
And then come to find out, you know what I'm saying?
My brother hipped me to it, the nigga tryin' to rap now
Oh, yeah, that's the shit that got me mad!
Please, Mr. Rapper, once again (That's the shit that got me mad)
That's the shit, you know what I'm saying? (This is a family-oriented show)
You know what I'm saying? That's the shit that feds me up (Gentlemen, please)
Word up, you know what I'm saying? (Disregard the foul language)
I'm watchin' this nigga video, you know what I'm saying?
They got mermaids swimmin' in they living rooms and shit like that
You know what I'm saying?
This nigga dancing in the rain with kids climbin' up mountains and shit
You know what I'm saying?
I'm— I'm— I'm watchin' this nigga video (I'm gonna have to ask you to refrain from the language)
The car goin' two hundred miles an hour
Where the fuck is he going? (Please Mr. Rapper)
The nigga climbing out the fuckin car (Please refrain from the foul language, one more time)
Let me see you try that shit on a train
You know what I'm saying? Try that shit on a fuckin' train
What kind of shit, you know what I'm saying?
Got a thousand niggas write for him, let me write for you
Son my shit is jumpin', I got John Blaze shit4Embed