1 ContributorGunpowder Patt vs. Don Marino Lyrics[Round 1: Gunpowder Patt]
It’s niggas like you that’s in my way of getting to the top spot
When you funny with performance, they think your pen ain’t top-notch
I came with all bars, no jokes
Since y’all think I am not hot
ATL, y’all ready?
Nigga, knock-knock…
Ask me who’s there! (Who’s there?)
The whole family: wife, daughter, son, nigga
Off being humble, give you a chance to-

[Crowd]
Run, nigga

[Gunpowder Patt]
You just gotta be gone by the count of-

[Crowd]
One, nigga!

…

[Gunpowder Patt]
ONE, NIGGA!
I said, after this battle, he gon’ be thinkin’ shit fine
Little do he know, I got all my niggas waitin’ outside
Squirtin’ Blood, had the whole gang chasin’ the Don
Four stones on ya back like an Asian massage!
The shit I walk wit’ is lethal
Spark, it’ll lean you
Eliza Thornberry: nigga, you can talk to this Eagle!
So, are you really tryna war, with this Jurassic Park carnivore?
Extension, wipe him off the Earth
This nigga Don’ll soar!
You look like, in yo’ hood, you get no respect
When you walk down the block…(*smack*) open neck!
I’ll front you a pack, some dope to stretch…
And fuck you up the next day ‘cause you ain’t sold it yet
Drug bars!
Y’all know that saying, “Step on a crack, break ya mama back”?
Yeah, I see that shit real clear
In the trap, so much crack gettin’ stepped on, my mama in a wheelchair!
I can’t wait ‘til your daughter turn 18 so she can suck my dick!
I mean that with all disrespect
You know where you at, nigga? Atlanta!
Act brave, a Hawk spit, show how foul can (Falcon) a nigga get!
I’ll pull up at a bad time, bruh
Fuck the bath time up
Grip on your daughter...piss in the water...and baptize her!
When I look at you, I don’t see Don Marino
Nigga with good pen shit, wreck shit, also known to catch homi’s
Nah, nigga, this is kid shit
Forensics: you’re lookin’ at a dead body!
Let’s go
You might also like[Round 1: Don Marino]
Guess what, Patt? I do got loved ones, aw, sure
And off the strength of Don being humble, this is that Don’s board
So today’s yo’ lucky day
I’mma give you a chance to run away, if you on board
But you know, you gotta be gone by the time I get to uno

[Crowd]
Uno!

[Don Marino]
Nah, I get wild and draw four!
I’m finally here!
And for all you league owners that curved me? My fee’s a stack now
I paint pictures, punches through the screen like the old Smackdown
I told Norbes, “Gimme yo’ best up-and-comer. I need that crack sound!”
Needless to say, think TSA
Out the gate, they pull me to the side and say, “Pat down”
Well, check the bag
Y’all think this coward’s in demand?
Think yo’ place, fam, Space Jam
An alien from the trenches came to get Patrick’s powers is the plan
No matter how high I set the bar, my method left them sour in the stands
Trippin’, Mike Epps, pimpin’
‘Fore I get to SMACK, he had to put Powder in my hands
So I run up, I put the MAC on these cowards
Strong aim, LeBron James
‘Fore the game starts, I’ll let it clap on this Powder
(*chokes*)

Time, man, time

[Round 2: Gunpowder Patt]
Let me guess…
You gon’ spit one or two haymakers?
Say a couple wild thangs?
Somethin’ ‘bout “you gon’ put Powder in the air like LeBron James”?
Or somethin’ with “Patt down (patdown)”, security, and weapons fly
Or Patt in the air like he tryna catch a fly?
I mean, we talked about my name
Let’s talk about Don’s, though
How you got your name, Don?
Did you make an M, got an AR...I know (I-NO)!
This shit I got’ll flip Don around...li’l nod slow
Yeah, that’s filler, but still punchin’
So what if it’s dry? GO! (Drago)
I mean, the shit be right there
He just gotta go get it
Niggas wanna live like the movie Above the Rim, then get goaltended
Everybody wanna be Birdie, then see fo’ pigeons!
Y’all see where I’m ‘bout to go wit’ it
If I was Motaw, he’s Shep, and this the end of that fourth quarter
Remember when he got the gun from the back?
A nigga like woulda been had it on him
Grabbed the four, and...passed the ball, and...wait ‘til he get back on offense
Then he get clapped off the court like Magic Johnson!
You see them Mexican bars took you far, but I doubt it could get farther
They knew it was gon’ be a fight...they just came to see who hit harder
But watch what you say, nigga!
You’ll get your shit clobbered, my fist palm him
I’ll beat the sweet out this nigga for letting his pen yard us (pinata)!
It’s two types of Mexicans in life, I’mma explain both things
You got the ones that get a lotta cocaine ‘cross the border…
And the ones that look like they bought a whole lotta cocaine
I mean, shit, everybody hit the block befo’
That don’t mean you made profit, though
It all could fall in one push...any nigga that sold a dime’ll know (domino)
But you paid for battles and got no-showed
If a nigga ever tried-
Deadass! I was there!
You paid for battles and got no-showed
If a nigga ever tried to zo’ me out some bread, he wouldn’t get to hear the end of it
That just show when he gets zo’d, he act (Zodiac) half a man: Sagittarius!
Man, when I look at you, I don’t see Don-
Man, dead body
[Round 2: Don Marino]
I heard you signed a URL contract
How the fuck you sign a URL contract, and get Don for some kicks?
Nobody ain’t told me shit
Yo, Norbes, me and son got it switched!
You really signin’ that? You’ll put ink on that bitch?
And if you got one, where the fuck my-
Nah, I’m Mexican: I never needed paperwork to sneak off with some shit!
I’ll have your bitch on all fours, she feelin’ this vato
She’s somethin’ I’m poppin’ on
I’ll stuff my jalapeno in her box like Papa John’s!
You said that? You said that?
So you know what this about
You can taste the nina
BAH! I took the words right outta yo’ mouth!
See, I might as well use your bars, so you could take this hearse ride
Against Rah and Short Fuse, you recycled material, committed the worst crime
I mean, if it didn’t light the room, or create that boom, then why reverse rhymes?
If it had no spark with Short Fuse, then why reuse, Gunpowder, if it didn’t blow up the first time!?
I don’t respect your grind!
Y’all think he’s the best bet!?
This your third PG, and Norbes gave you me, ‘cause he know I’m the next threat
You at WeGoHard saw what I did to Chess when that vet slept?
My abilities, Paranormal Activity
Now I gotta lay Powder down for y’all to see my next step!
So you put your trust in this cat, ‘til them shells blow
Chapelle’s Show: I walk outta nowhere, and drop a buck in his cap!
Spray his people
Think Ray Finkle, ‘cause if y’all get him to snap
Y’all gonna get mad at Marino when I fuck up the Patt (P.A.T.)
Don’t talk about the trap, like I wasn’t dodging the policia
Hand directly on the burner: I was flippin’ tortillas!
They raided my cousin’s crib, I felt bad for my poor tia
I had more Mexican grams at that table than loteria!
I get the fif’ in Powder like Chapo, fam’
I lean back with two arms: this my vato stance!
You think I cut grass or own a taco stand!?
Man, off the corner, I was savage with the elbow
Oooh yeah, like Macho Man!
Come on, fam’
If we was caught in a hard place
Before we’d pass “Go”, my holmes (homes) put down, and blew (blue) corners like Park Place
I had the chopper pointed down the whip: it’s a car chase
I hit the Powder before I go out shooting like Scarface
‘Cause here’s the taste
It’s plain (plane) to see we air hearts (Earhart), no Amelia
And I don’t use Uber Pool ‘cause they never have enough seats for the familia!
‘Til my vato pulls up-

[So Severe]
Ayo, Don, lemme get-

[Don Marino]
Nah, chill, chill, chill
Lemme slash his neck first

[So Severe]
All right, but lemme get-

[Don Marino]
Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah!
With the blade, I’ll slice him up and stick him in a piano for the perks

[So Severe]
Well, then, I’ll just-

[Don Marino]
No, no, no, ‘cause I’mma bury him behind the church
And use his skull to dig up the plot and dirt!

[So Severe]
Well, then what’chu want me to do!?

[Don Marino]
Nothing! The Mexicans used to doing all the work!
YOU LUCKY I FUCKED UP!
YOU LUCKY I FUCKED UP!

[Round 3: Gunpowder Patt]
He think ‘cause I’m Black and he Mexican, we deal with the same type of race ish
Nigga, everybody love Raymond...everybody hate Chris!
African bars!
African bars, I can’t relate to this Mexican
You got a trunk on your car? It’s a trunk on my elephant!
BIG gun, gotta hold it like a speakerbox
Heaters cocked
Three pounds and a fif’ to ya do’, like a secret knock!
Y’all know what he look like?
You look like you not allowed within 100 feet of no school
Gotta watch how I approach you
Look like you got bullied in class all ya life…
Nigga, you was home-schooled!
And y’all really got me tryna rap with this dummy?
Nigga look like he went to the barbershop and asked for a noogie
The barber said, “Yeah, c’mere!”, gave the nigga a noogie
Don looked in the mirror...and paid the nigga money!
You in a fight with the wrong weapon
You look like you beyond stressin’
Like, like…
You work at Bed, Bath & Beyond, in the “Beyond” section!
Hold on…
You battled Chess, and think you buzzin’ now…
Beat Prez, then you somethin’ now…
He think he got a leg up on me…
Saw 6: cut it out!
What happened now?
You don’t know about me? Ask around
Silencer look like the wood tip on a Black & Mild
Thang smokin’, brains open
I’mma take two out ya pack: nigga, I’m chain-smokin’
Toss you and the murder weapon in the same ocean
He gon’ try to save his boy and see (buoyancy) he ain’t floatin’!
When I look at you, I don’t see Don Marino-
Nigga, I ain’t done yet!
I’ll be in yo’ crib wit’ yo’ bitch, while you not in there
Wearin’ yo’ house shoes, scorin’ 3-points on yo’ MyCareer!
No lie, this shit be fucked up in the streets
Wanna know why? (Why?)
‘Cause my OG younger than me
This nigga be tellin’ me what the fuck to do…
After I drop him off to fuckin’ school
Time
Let’s go, Mexico

[Round 3: Don Marino]
Honestly, I feel disrespected
You went from Staxx Rilla to Gunpowder Patt, tryna get detected
I went from Don Dollaz to Don Marino, we both got rejected
Now we both got accepted
It’s inspiration
It’s like immigration: we both had to change our names to cross over to get accepted!
But check it
Ever since Cortez, there hasn’t been a Spanish battler on the scene
I gotta ask about
I mean, I’m the first Miami battler to get a PG
But I’m always gonna back this out
The irony: Chino plugged me in with Powder so I could produce for SMACK
See how the trappers out?
No wonder they booked a Mexican
We good with numbers, but we known to pack the house!
So watch your mouth!
I came a long way from the tomato fields to the lime trees!
Now it’s bars, performance, them lines mean
So you right, it’s that pen shit, wreck shit with the rhyme schemes
It is forensics, ‘cause if I go ballistic and dust Gunpowder, it’s ‘bout to be a crime scene!
So just know I’m with the drama!
Napoleon Dynamite: I was out back, feeding the Llama!
It was a must, so trust
We was holding up signs, waiting for the ratchet to get off the bus
So don’t fuss!
I hold the pound for the clowns
You battled Skates, right?
My brother, you had to use that to get around!
I hold it down for my amigos, it’s lethal
My uncle got caught throwing bullets on cam’: he got hit with the Rico!
So mira, mijo, they say I’m next up
Well, that’s what they say, so I need the pesos
They tryna push a chico in front of the class: Vote For Pedro!
Mexican bars!
Trump finna get his sooner or later!
But until then, we keep looking over that fence like nosy neighbors
I heard you had to push that mary with the ratchet and get some papers
Ironic: I had to push to get married with the ratchet and get some papers!
Mexican bars!
They keep throwing dirt on my name, but I dug out the hope
Saw I.C.E. run in, get slugs from the chrome
That shit hurt my heart when I seen ‘em get drug from their homes
Now they’re back in Mexico, they’re smugglers
You wouldn’t believe what they drug out of holmes!
Mexican bars!
See, if they raid your crib, they’ll probably find everything illegal in the home
If they raid my crib, they’ll find everyone illegal in the home!
They send us back, it’s a danger zone
Grip the chrome
You might think I have a light point
But trust me, E.T. was the only alien that wanted to go home!
Mexican bars!
They had me losing to Chess, Prez, even you, and I hate the odds
I put on for my city, now I paid the squad
And we do got other work: landscaping, painting, construction
But you better pray to God
‘Cause if they let this Mexican into battle rap-

[Gunpowder Patt]
What you doin’?

[Don Marino]
Then we all taking all y’all jobs!Embed