47 ContributorsCan’t Nobody Hold Me Down Lyrics[Intro: Puff Daddy]
Bad Boy
We ain't gon' stop

[Verse 1: Puff Daddy & Mase]
Now it's Sean on the hot track, melt like it's hot wax
Put it out, all the stores, bet you could shop that (That's right)
Leave a nigga with a hot hat
Fronting like Bad Boy ain't got tracks, nigga, stop that
There's no guy slicker than this young fly nigga
Nickel-nine nigga, floss, you die quicker (Uh-huh)
Did fed time, out-of-town pie-flipper
Turn Cristal into a crooked-I-sipper
Everybody want to be fast, see the cash
Fuck around, they weak staff get a heat rash
Anything in Bad Boy way, we smash (We smash)
Hundred-G stash, push a bulletproof E-Class (Ahaha)
I'm through with bein a player and a baller
Just want me one bad bitch so I can spoil her
Mase wanna be the one you respect, even when you're vexed
Rock Versace silks over silk V-necks
Got green never seen, so you suck my jewels
Clutch my Uz', anything I touch, I bruise
Puff make his own law, nigga, fuck your rules (That's right)
Goodfellas, you know you can't touch us dudes
You might also like[Chorus: Puff Daddy & Mase]
Don't push us 'cause we're close to the edge
We're trying not to lose our heads, aha-ha-ha-ha

[Verse 2: Mase & Puff Daddy]
Broken glass everywhere
If it ain't about no money, Puff, I just don't care (That's right)
I'm that Goodfella fly guy, sometime wiseguy
Spend time in H-A-W-A-I-I
Mase, can you please stop smoking la-la?
Puff, why try? I'm a thug, I'ma die high
I be out in Jersey, puffin' Hershey
Brothers ain't worthy to rock my derby
No, I'm never drug-free when I'm the club, G
Though I know the thugs be wantin' to slug me (Uh-huh)
Could it be I move as smooth as Bugsy? (Yeah)
Or be at the bar with too much bubbly? (Come on)
Yo, I think it must be the girls wanna lust me
Or is it simply the girls just love me?
Brothers wanna, rock my Rolls, rock my clothes
Rock my ice, pull out Glocks, stop my life (Ugh)
I'm like, "Damn, how these niggas got that trif'?
Used to be my man, how he gonna plot on my wife?"
Do you think he snake me 'cause he hate me?
Or he got his Ph.D., "Player Hatin' Degree" (Ahaha)
[Refrain: Puff Daddy]
Can't nobody take my pride (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Can't nobody hold me down
Oh, no
I got to keep on movin'

[Verse 3: Puff]
Quit that, (Uh-huh) You a big cat? (Yeah)
Where your chicks at? (Yeah) Where your whips at? (Where they at?)
Wherever you get stacks, I'ma fix that
Everything that's big dreams, I did that (That's right)
Don't knock me 'cause you're boring
I'm record-sales-soaring, straight touring
Simply a lot of men be wanting to hear me
'Cause their words just don't offend me (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
We spend cheese in the West Indies
Then come home to plenty cream Bentleys (Ahaha)
You name it, I could claim it
Young, Black, and famous, with money hangin' out the anus
And when you need a hit, who you go and get? (Who?)
Bet against us? (Not a sure bet)
We make hits that'll rearrange your whole set (That's right)
And got a Benz that I ain't even drove yet

[Chorus: Puff Daddy & Mase]
Don't push us, 'cause we're close to the edge
We're trying not to lose our heads, aha-ha-ha-ha
[Bridge: Mase & Puff Daddy]
I get the feeling sometime, it make me wonder why you wanna take us under?
Why you wanna take us under?
I get the feeling sometime, it make me wonder why you wanna take us under
Why you wanna take us under?

[Refrain: Puff Daddy]
Can't nobody take my pride (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Can't nobody hold me down
Oh, no
I got to keep on movin'
Can't nobody take my pride (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Can't nobody hold me down
Oh, no
I got to keep on movin'
Can't nobody take my pride (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Can't nobody hold me down
Oh, no
I got to keep on movin'
Can't nobody take my pride (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Can't nobody hold me down5Embed