25 ContributorsTurn It Up (Remix) / Fire It Up Lyrics[Produced by Busta Rhymes & Spliff Star (co.)]

[Intro]
Oh, ah, ah
Ohhhh, ah-ah-ah
Check it out
Flipmode Squad, raw deluxe shit
'98, check it out, yo

[Verse 1]
I be the street shit, the nigga your mama freak with
Put y'all niggas on it, y'all know how to keep a secret
When I get money, you know I like to keep it
How I get money, niggas are tryin' to peep it
Flipmode be niggas you wanna form a team with
Them get-money niggas, the ones to plot the scheme with
Them niggas that be used to gettin' money frequent
The ones that would always measure my triple beam with
Until they start takin' my niggas to the precinct
That's all back in the day, yo, that ain't nothin' recent
'Cause nowadays it be bitches we like to speak with
Eat with, lay 'em down and sleep with
Type of pussy make a nigga wanna keep it
Shorty be so exotic, she lookin' decent
Lot of corny niggas be offerin' wack free shit
I can't hold the heat no more, yo, I gotta release it
You might also like[Chorus 1]
What y'all wanna do?
Don't you know we always comin' through, me and my crew?
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
To all my dogs that's straight blunted
Run around in the 500 all day
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!), c'mon!

[Verse 2]
Now, everytime that I meet a nigga who fronted
It's alright, 'cause we gettin' money and everybody want it
Smoke a big spliff, get myself for a blunted
Fall on the floor and I gotta call my S-500
Iceburg 5, where you at? "No need for alarm
Right now I'm cruisin' to the sounds of my enhanced CD-ROM"
Hurry up, 5, ayo, you know it's about to get thick
I see this cat all way behind my back about to do a stick
"Tell me where you at, I will be there in ten seconds flat
You know I got your back, I'll be there just in time to counteract"
Sometimes I'm unforget cooth, my S5 bulletproof
I turbo boost and blast right through your motherfucking roof
Comin' through, hittin' you, knockin' out a nigga tooth
Full speed ahead like we running a toll booth
Produce more flavor than Veryfine juice
Call a truce before me and my niggas'll let loose
[Chorus 2]
All my ladies in the place to be
Getting money while they next to me, let me see
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
All my people, just wave your hand
Gettin' money all across the land, one time
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!), c'mon!

[Verse 3]
Relase the heat, you're lettin' loose to the extreme
Me and the Iceburg S5 bounce from the scene
Recline my seat, rock to the beat
Leanin' so hard, it's like my whole squad up in the Jeep
Blowin' up the spot or we hit them, know what I mean?
Got you open, we keepin' you niggas up like caffeine
Flyin' guillotine
Seein' everything on my little computer screen from here to Phillipine
Keep it movin', we never run out of gasoline
Gas me a ossen, a nigga with kerosine
Me and my 5 be runnin' the mission you've never seen
Hot shit makin' you niggas forever feen
Anyone of you comin', you better come clean
Hit you with an overdose of more rhyme and Phetamine
Got your eye blood shot, you need Visine
Niggas is wildin', I think you need to read the sireen
[Chorus 1 + 2]
What y'all wanna do?
Don't you know we always comin' through, me and my crew?
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
To all my dogs that's straight blunted
Run around in the 500 all day
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
To all my ladies in the place to be
Getting money while they next to me, let me see
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
To all my people, just wave your hand
Gettin' money all across the land, one time
Let me hear you say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!)
Say, "Fire it up!" (Fire it up!), c'mon!Embed