6 ContributorsDaydreamin’ Lyrics[Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
All day long I think of you (Mmm, ah)
I can't even think of things to do (No-no)
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (Daydreams)
Now, baby, what am I to do? (Oh-ho)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah

[Verse 1: Tatyana Ali]
I think about yesterday
Somebody was talkin' to me
But I couldn't understand a word they said
Not that I was tryna be rude
But conversation couldn't make it through
The thoughts of love I had for you

[Pre-Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
Baby, your face takes up my time
'Cause I can just see your face with mine
I try to change my thoughts, it's a waste of time
You keep my mind occupied (Woah, ooh)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah

[Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
All day long I think of you
I can't even think of things to do (I can't even think, oh yeah)
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (Yeah)
Now, baby, what am I to do?
Oh, ooh, oh, woah
You might also like[Verse 2: Tatyana Ali]
Tell me what am I to do?
When I can only think of you
Even when I have simple things to do, ooh
Like talkin' on the telephone
Or watchin' TV when somethin's on
If it ain't about you, then what's the use?

[Pre-Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
Baby, your face takes up my time
'Cause I can just see your face with mine (See your face with mine, yeah)
I try to change my thoughts, it's a waste of time (Waste of time)
You keep my mind occupied (You keep)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah (Oh, ooh, all day)

[Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
All day long I think of you (Think of you, babe)
I can't even think of things to do (Yeah)
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (My daydreams)
Now, baby, what am I to do? (What am I to do?)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah (Oh, ohh)
All day long I think of you (Yes, I do, babe)
I can't even think of things to do
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (Yeah)
Now, baby, what am I to do? (I to do)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah (I to do)
[Pre-Chorus: Tatyana Ali & Lord Tariq]
Baby, your face takes up my time (All of my time, yeah)
'Cause I can just see your face with mine (I see it, I see it)
I try to change my thoughts, it's a waste of time (Waste of time)
You keep my mind occupied (Occupied)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah (Yo, yo-yo-yo)

[Verse 3: Lord Tariq]
What's up, girl? You all grown up now (Uh)
Doin' your singin' thing, the charts sewed up now (Uh-huh)
Well, you know I do my rap thing, I'm holdin' it down (Yeah)
And I knew that me and you was gon' connect somehow (Come on)
Your people called for this track, it ain't no trouble to me (Uh-huh)
I dreamt that you and me got married on the WB (Yeah)
You on channel 11 (Uh), I carry the M-11 (Uh-huh)
RJ, call the reverend, it's a match made in heaven (Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh, come on)
Whatever have you, I let you know, I'm from Soundview
Down 'til I found you, I'm tryna to be around you
I'm still comin' up, chasin' the fame and wealth
I could spoil you with time, you got everything else, what?

[Verse 4: Peter Gunz]
I'm still New York to the heart, but got love for all
When I first saw this girl, dog, I wanted to fall
Mean the hummer so stunnin', that my vibe was tense
And I was wishin' everyday that I was fresh like Prince
Then I came across my man, RJ, parlayin' in the 6
With Tatyana Ali playin'
I heard Steely Dan "Black Cow" and went wild
Yo, tell me how can I get down
That's when they threw me on the redeye to LA
I dirtied my cash and peeps back, and hit Shaq on the celly
Courtside seats so close that we could touch
Tatyana and Lord, Peter Gunz like what
[Chorus: Tatyana Ali]
All day long I think of you (Yeah)
I can't even think of things to do
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (Woah, woah)
Now, baby, what am I to do? (What am I to do?)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah
All day long I think of you (All day, I do)
I can't even think of things to do (Think of, do)
Wishin' all of my daydreams come true (Oh, woah)
Now, baby, what am I to do? (Baby)
Oh, ooh, oh, woah
All day long I think of you (Daydreamin' of you, daydreamin' of)
I can't even think of things to do (Daydreamin' of you, daydreamin' of)Embed