13 ContributorsHot Boyz (Remix) Lyrics[Intro: Missy Elliott, Nas]
This is for my ghetto motherfuckers (Uh)
Uh, forty side felony (Hot boy)
Felony, misdemeanor (Hot boy)
The charge is murder (Hot boy)
Uh, uh (Hot boy)

[Verse 1: Nas, Missy Elliott]
Escobar, CBR bikes (Woo), I'm switchin' gears
Headlights shine so bright, bitches freeze like deers
Them fiends want that D-boy (Uh)
Feds send in decoys (Uh), pack that heat, boy
Push you where you rest in peace, boy (C'mon)
Get your mama's house shot up (Uh)
Bodies all chopped up (What?)
When them bodies pop up (Yeah), I ain't gettin' locked up (Uh)
My Bentley cruise the block, with the sunroof top
Hood rats jumpin' on my jock 'cause I blew up the spot
Crushin' your Benz, crushin' (Uh) your Navigator system
My QB piece make y'all niggas tuck your shit in (Now)
It's Nas in your area (Uh, hot boy)
Queens 'bout to tear it up (Uh, hot boy)
Braveheart, y'all scared of us (Uh, hot boy)
Real niggas, they be us (Uh, uh, hot boy)

[Verse 2: Missy Elliott, Lil' Mo]
What's your name? (Uh) 'Cause I'm impressed (Uh)
Can you treat me good? (Uh) I won't settle for less (Oh)
You a hot boy (Hot boy), a rock boy (A rock boy)
A fun toy (A fun toy), tote a Glock boy (Ooh)
Where you live? (Uh) Is it by yourself? (Uh)
Can I move wit' you? (Uh) Do you need some help? (Uh)
I cook, boy (I cook, boy), I'll give you more (Uh)
I'm a fly girl (Uh) and I like those (Mmm)
See Missy Elliott LiveGet tickets as low as $80You might also like[Chorus: Missy Elliott, Lil' Mo]
Hot boys (Say what?)
Baby, you got what I want (Uh-huh) (What I want)
See, 'cause y'all be drivin' Lexus jeeps (Yeah)
And the Benz jeeps and the Lincoln jeeps (Yeah)
Nothin' cheaper, got them Platinum Visas (Yeah, da-da-da)
Hot boys (Uh-huh, hot boys)
Baby, you got what I want (Uh-huh) (What I want)
See, 'cause y'all be drivin' Jaguars (Hey)
And the Bentleys and the Rolls Royce (Ooh)
Playin' hardballs wit' them Platinum Visas (Ooh)
(Uh-uh, uh-uh)

[Verse 3: Missy Elliott, Lil' Mo]
Is that your car (Uh), the XK8? (Uh)
Are you ridin' alone (Uh), can I be your date? (Ooh)
Come get me (Come get me), get me (Get me)
Don't diss me (Don't diss me), don't trick me (Ooh)
Got some friends (Uh), can they come too? (Uh-huh)
Can you hook them up (Uh-huh) wit' some boys like you? (Ooh)
A hot boy (A hot boy), a rock boy (A rock boy), on top boy (Uh)
And I like those (Mmm)

[Chorus: Missy Elliott, Lil' Mo]
Hot boys (Say what?) (Hot boys)
Baby, you got what I want (Uh-huh) (They got what I want)
See, 'cause y'all be drivin' Lexus jeeps
And the Benz jeeps (Yeah) and the Lincoln jeeps (You do)
Nothin' cheaper, with them Platinum Visas (Oh, yeah) (Uh-uh, uh-uh)
Hot boys (Uh-huh) (Hot boys)
Baby, you got what I want (Uh-huh) (You got what I want)
See, 'cause y'all be drivin' Jaguars
And the Bentleys and the Rolls Royce (Oh)
Playin' hardballs wit' them Platinum Visas (Oh, yeah)
[Verse 4: Eve]
Yo, only take 'em thugged out
Slightly bugged out, fuck with his tongue out
Know the job ain't gettin' done 'til the body's gettin' drug out
Hot boy, keep me right
Play your part and I'll keep it tight
Where else you gon' be in the middle of the night
But up in the sheets with me a'ight?
Gangsta, true to your gang, street master
You the one I need when there's beef, street blaster
Ain't afraid to stop a cat, plus pop a cat, huh
Soldier, cash money, rule your world
What's toppin' that, huh?
S430 keep me on my toes
Get a tingle in my spine, what spot? Only he knows
He's a hot boy, Missy, sing it out and I'm gon' spit it
Ruff Ryders scream it loud, daddy, is you wit' it?
If your team can't handle my bitches then we gon' ride
Brickhouse stallions, keep thugs open wide, huh
'Illadelph's best, E-V-E, stay committed
Mess with many, but if he ain't the realer
I ain't wit' it, wit' it

[Verse 5: Q-Tip]
Yo, mami, what the deal?
Ain't no heat fuckin' hotter than the heat a nigga hold
I think you really should be told (Uh)
That I deal with long shafts (Shafts)
That keep a long blast (Long blast)
Now look at a nigga (Yeah) and peel off fast (C'mon)
Word, you got your girlfriend?
Word, she can get it too
Fuck it though, I'm honest, yo
I'm saying though, let's play it through
Getting cinematic with it
Niggas, if you got it, hit it
Fuck the dumbness
Hit it 'til it's numbness
[Chorus: Missy Elliott, Lil' Mo]
Hot boy (Hot boy)
Baby, you got what I want (All I want)
Won't you really come and satisfy me? (Come and satisfy me)
I be lovin' you like endlessly (Every day, all day)
Hot boy (Ooh, baby)
Baby, you got what I want (All I want)
Won't you really come and satisfy me? (Satisfy me)
I be lovin' you like endlessly (Oh)2Embed