11 ContributorsFaded Pictures LyricsThat's right (Yo)
(Oh yeah)
Life is funny ain't it (Yeah)
Oh yeah, oh yeah
Sometimes you can end up with
Come on, come on now
Somebody you really don't wanna be with
Oh, baby, mm
And others left to figure it out
Check it

[Verse 1: Case]
She was more than a women, a goddess for all it seems
All I ever needed was her right here loving me
For a while we were cool and the groovin' love was on
But I still remember how it felt when our love was gone

[Chorus 1]
In a tattered picture book
Was a photograph she took years ago
(Secret memories in her mind)
Secret memories in her mind
How could love be so unkind?
Heartbreak time (my heart is breaking)

[Chorus 2]
Faded pictures in a broken glass (broken glass)
Like a mirror revealing (I see... I see)
What the woman is feeling
Was it someone from a distant past? (way back long ago)
'Cause it's breaking my heart
To watch her stare into the glass (Joe help me out!)
You might also like[Verse 2: Joe]
As she turned through the pages the tears rolled down her face
I could see her reminiscing, why her life had to be this way
Then she stopped and she came to a page where her diary ends
To smell the scent of an old rose, from her lover I suppose

[Chorus 1]
In a tattered picture book (tattered picture book)
Was a photograph she took (she took) years ago
(Secret memories in her mind)
Secret memories in her mind, (oh oh)
How could love be so unkind? (unkind)
Heartbreak time

[Chorus 2]
Faded pictures in a broken glass (Oh baby)
Like a mirror revealing (Like a mirror revealing)
What the woman is feeling
(was it someone from a distant past?)
Was it someone from a distant past? (Oh oh)
'Cause it's breaking my heart (it's breaking my heart)
To watch her stare into the glass (stare into the glass)

[Interlude (x2)]
(Oh na na na na)
Just keep spinning
As she stares into the glass, I'll be waiting
'Cause she's lost inside the past
(lost inside the past)
[Chorus]
Faded pictures in a broken glass (in a broken glass)
Like a mirror revealing (I feel it)
What the woman is feeling
Was it someone from a distant past? (way back long ago)
'Cause it's breaking my heart
(You're breaking my... breaking my...)
To watch her stare into the glass (my heart is broke girl...)

Faded pictures in a broken glass2Embed