32 ContributorsWe Fly High Lyrics[Intro: Bruce Butler & Jim Jones]
"I wear a mean dark pair of shades
And you can't see my eyes
Unless my head is bent, you dig?"
Uh-huh

[Chorus: Jim Jones, Karen Civil & Cam'ron]
We fly high, no lie (You hear that?), you know this (Let's ride… Ballin'!)
Foreign rides outside (Yessir!), it's like showbiz (We in the building)
We stay fly (Ballin'), no lie, and you know this (Ballin'!)
Hips and thighs, oh my, stay focused

[Verse 1: Jim Jones]
Ya boy gettin' paper (Money), I buy big cars (Foreign)
Eight fly rides just to drive in my garage (Choose one!)
Stay sky high (Twisted), fly with the stars (Twinkle, twinkle)
G4 Flights, 80 grand large (Ballin'!)
So we lean with it, pop with it (Bankhead)
'Vertible Jones, mean with the top missin' (Flossin'!)
I'm sittin' clean with the bottom kitted (Do it!)
I hopped out, saggy jeans and my rock glistened (Ballin'!)
But I spent about 8 grand
Mami on stage doin' the rain dance (I think she like me)
She let it hit the floor, made it pop (What else?)
Got my pedal to the floor screamin', "Fuck the cops!" (Do it!)
You might also like[Chorus: Jim Jones & Karen Civil]
We fly high, no lie, you know this (Ballin'!)
Foreign rides outside, it's like showbiz
We stay fly, no lie, and you know this (Ballin'!)
Hips and thighs, oh my, stay focused

[Verse 2: Jim Jones]
Slow down, here tonight, could be gone tomorrow (One chance)
So I speed through life like there's no tomorrow (Speedin'!)
Hundred G's worth of ice on the Audemars (Flossy!)
And we in the street life 'til they call the law (Ballin'!)
I made the whip get naked (What happened?)
While I switch gears, bitch lookin' at the bracelet (Got 'em)
Step out, show me what you all about
Flashbacks to last night of me ballin' out (Harlem!)
1 AM, we was at the club (What happened?)
2 AM, ten bottles of bub (Money ain't a thing)
And by 3-somethin' I was thinkin' 'bout grub
So I stumbled to the car due to drinks and the drugs (Twisted)

[Chorus: Jim Jones & Karen Civil]
We fly high, no lie, you know this (Ballin'!)
Foreign rides outside, it's like showbiz
We stay fly, no lie, and you know this (Ballin'!)
Hips and thighs, oh my, stay focused
[Verse 3: Jim Jones]
(Nigga, could you buy that?) I keep 20 in the pocket (Light change)
You talkin' buck 80 if the Bentley is the topic (That Grey Poupon)
But of course gotta fly the Spur ([?])
To the hood and roll dice on side the curb (I got bank)
But I know a G a bet may sound absurd (Get your money up!)
Drive 80 up Lenox 'cause I got a urge (Speedin', speedin')
The rap game like the crack game
Lifestyle rich, famous, livin' in the fast lane (Ballin', ballin')
So when I bleep, shorty bleep back
Lou' Vuitton belt where I'm keepin' all the heat strapped (Loaded)
I beat the trial over Rucker (Let's do it!)
All guns loaded and I'm back, motherfucker (Dipset)

[Chorus: Jim Jones & Karen Civil]
We fly high, no lie, you know this (Ballin'!)
Foreign rides outside, it's like showbiz
We fly high, no lie, you know this (Ballin'!)
Foreign rides outside, it's like showbiz (Ballin')
We stay fly (Stay fly), no lie (No lie), and you know this (Ballin')
Hips and thighs (Eh), oh my (Oh my), stay focused

[Outro: Jim Jones]
Chea, you niggas need to stay focused
When you dealin' with a motherfuckin' G
You know my name, Jones
One Eye, Capo Status, all the above, motherfucka
This Dipset, ByrdGang, we born to fly
Y'all know the rules: fall back or fall back
Someone tell my bitch Summer I'm lookin' for her, ya dig?
Another day another dollar, fast life fucka
Dipset
[Chorus: Karen Civil]
We stay fly, no lie, and you know this
Hips and thighs, oh my, stay focused18Embed