18 ContributorsIn the Ayer Lyrics[Intro: will.i.am]
Oh hot damn, this is my jam..
Keep me partyin 'til the AM
Y'all don't understand, make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer
Oh hot damn, this is my jam..
Keep me partyin 'til the A.M
Y'all don't understand, make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer

[Verse 1: Flo Rida]
Hey! This my jam
Y'all don't understand, I'mma make you understand
What's pumpin' in my CD player, player?
Party all night like yayer, yayer
Shawty got her hands in the ayer, ayer
Make me wanna take it there, there I go
Here I go, yeah, that's my song
DJ bring it back, come in my zone
I get paid for dat, count them bones
Then let's wop, until the early morn'
I need that funk whem I'm up in the club
Even my Chevy that pull up on dubs
Give me that drop down the waist like a drug
Lil' mama hot and she might show me love
Oh, hot damn, celebrate 'til the AM
I love it so much, it's got me sayin..
See Flo Rida LiveGet tickets as low as $41You might also like[Chorus: will.i.am (with Tiffany Villarreal)]
Oh hot damn, this is my jam..
Keep me partyin 'til the A.M
Y'all don't understand, make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer
(Oh hot damn, this is my jam
Keep me partyin 'til the AM
Y'all don't understand, make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer)

[Verse 2: Flo Rida]
Hey! I just might start the wave
Like I'm at the ball game, do my thang
Hands up, I got, money in the bank
I'm so fly, 747 plane
Rock it, don't stop it, how I got my name
Baby, keep poppin', you might get the fame
Walk the red carpet, won't see you the same
I get to stuntin', no (Minimum wage)
Slide wit me, ride wit me
Flo Rida represent, gotta vibe wit me
Make me, throw it up, bartender in the club
Go ahead and po' it up, gotta wonder how I does
Get buck and showin' up they (Stare, stare)
I'm hood, so it's really un- (Fair, fair)
Look good, shawty gon' get (Bare, bare)
We check, run my city like the (Mayor, mayor)
[Chorus: will.i.am, (Tiffany Villarreal) & (Both)]
Oh hot damn (Damn) this is my jam (Jam)
Keep me partyin 'til the A.M
(Y'all don't understand) Make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer (Throw my hands in the)
Ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer
Ayer, ay-ayer, ayer

[Breakdown: will.i.am, (Tiffany Villarreal) & (Both)]
Aight, now stop! Ooh
Put yo' hands in the air
It's a stick-up, stick-up, stick-up
A-stick-up, touch the ceilin', baby
(Throw my hands in the)
(Throw my hands in the) Put 'cha hands up
(Throw my hands in the) Put 'cha hands up
(Throw my hands in the) Put 'cha, put 'cha hands
Now put 'cha hands up, to the sky (To the sky)
Wave 'em, wave 'em round and round, side to side (Side to side)

[Bridge: Flo Rida (will.i.am)]
Get the party started, gon' touch the roof {Touch the proof}
(And we got them bottles poppin' up at my booth)
So throw yo' hands in the ayer! (Touch the ceilin, baby!)
Feel it, feel it, baby! Throw yo hands up!!
[Chorus: will.i.am]
Oh hot damn, this is my jam..
Keep me partyin 'til the A.M
Y'all don't understand, make me throw my hands
In the ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer

[Outro: will.i.am]
Ayer, ay-ayer, ayer, ay-ayer, ayer
Throw dem hands up!2Embed