1 ContributorWhat’s New LyricsAugust 29th, 2013
JAY Z Featuring Justin Timberlake “Holy Grail”

Today, Thursday, August 29th, JAY Z premiered the visuals for “Holy Grail” featuring Justin Timberlake, directly to fans via his Facebook. Directed by Anthony Mandler, the visual debuted as a status update on the social network, and using Facebook’s new embeddable post feature, allows for individuals to like and share the post directly embedding it into their own sites and blogs

“Holy Grail” can be viewed and shared at Facebook.com/JAYZ. “Holy Grail” is the second visual from the double platinum album, “Magna Carta… Holy Grail.”

August 26th, 2013
The City is Yours

No matter what city your from, we know you represent is proudly. Check out these Rocawear looks that do the same

August 23rd, 2013
#Throwback: JAY Z x Rocawear 1999 VMA’s

The 2013 VMA’s are around the corner, check out this 1999 JAY Z feature. JAY Z gave the world its first look at Rocawear on the 1999 VMA Red Carpet. Do you remember this clip?

August 22nd, 2013
All Black Everything

The weekend is right around the corner and we have the “All Black” looks that can flow from day to night. One color you can’t go wrong with is…Black. Its mysterious, classic, polished and it never fails. Check out some of our favorite #AllBlack looks from this season’s collections

August 13th, 2013
BTS: Rocawear Shoot w/ Draya Michele

On the set of our Fall/Holiday lookbook shoot with Draya Michele of VH1′s Basketball Wives
You might also likeLast week Rocawear shot its 2013 Fall/Holiday lookbook with Draya Michele of Basketball Wives. The set was a beautiful space in New York City with views to die for. Shot by the one and only Sarah McColgan, she captured the true essence of the Rocawear brand as well as made sure we nailed the hero shots. Big shout out to the entire team and Draya for working the looks! Are you ready for the Roc? Check out a few shots from the shoot below

August 12th, 2013
Rocawear Holiday Press Preview

Rocawear revealed their newest collection at the 2013 Holiday Press Preview

The event highlighted the hottest new pieces for the coming months, as well as connecting several familiar faces around town

Check out some of the images from the Rocawear Holiday Press Preview below, which looks are your favorite?

Check out more of the images via the Rocawear Holiday Press Preview Board on Pinterest!Embed