230 ContributorsFreaky Friday Lyrics[Intro: Chris Brown]
Lil Dicky, ooh, oh
(Mustard on the beat, ho)

[Verse 1: Chris Brown]
I woke up Chris Breezy
Oh my god, I'm the man (Oh, shit)
I'm so fly and I can dance (Woah, woah, shit)
There's tattoos on my neck (Oh, oh)
I just FaceTimed Kanye (Brr-brr)
I told him I'm his biggest fan, yeah (Yeah)
Got all these hoes in my DM (Yeah, I do)
Hol' up, holy shit, I got a kid (Oh)
Oh, I can sing so well
Wonder if I can say the n-word (Wait for real?)
Wait, can I really say the n-word?
What up, my nigga? (Woo) What up, my nigga?
Big ups, my nigga, we up, my nigga
You pussy-ass nigga, man, fuck y'all niggas
'Cause I'm that nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga
I'm that nigga (Oh)

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown's body (Oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday (Oh)
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways (Oh yeah, oh yeah)
I can't believe that it's Freaky Friday (Oh yeah, yeah)
Yeah, it's Freaky Friday (Oh yeah, yeah)
I'm in Chris Brown's body
I drive his Ferrari and I'm light-skinned Black
You might also like[Verse 2: Lil Dicky, Chris Brown]
(Ring, ring) What the fuck?
I woke up and I'm Lil Dicky (Lil Dicky?)
Ah (What the fuck?), this shit is real weak
How his dick stayin' perched up on his balls like that?
Walkin' down the street and ain't nobody know my name (Woah)
Ain't no paparazzi flashin' pictures, this is great (Woah)
Ain't nobody judging 'cause I'm Black or my controversial past
I'ma go and see a movie and relax (Woo, let's go)
Ayy, I'm a Blood, but I can finally wear blue (Cool)
Why's his mama callin' all the time? Leave me the fuck alone, bitch (Ha)
Wait, if I'm in Dicky's body, Breezy is who? (Huh)
Hope my daughter's in school
Fuck, if I was Chris Brown, where would I be? What would I do? (Oh)

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown's body (Oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday (Oh, oh)
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways (Oh yeah, oh yeah)
I can't believe that it's Freaky Friday (Oh yeah, yeah)
Yeah, it's Freaky Friday (Oh yeah, yeah)
I'm in Chris Brown's body
I look at my soft dick with delight, it's my dream dick

[Verse 3: Lil Dicky, Chris Brown]
If I was Lil Dicky in my body, where would I be? (Hmm)
I'm tryna find myself like an introspective monk (Where am I?)
I'm ballin' on the court, oh my god, I can dunk (Ah)
Snap a flick of my junk
My dick is trending on Twitter? Fuck
Now I'm at the club, I talked my way into gettin' in (Ayy)
I look up in the VIP, my goodness, there I am (Hey)
I signal to him to let me in, but he won't let me in
I don't know who that is
Wait, who the fuck he think he is? (Hey)
Took a glass bottle, shatter it on the bouncer's head (Woo)
Walked up to that motherfucker
Wait, think it through for a sec
If you hurt me, then you only hurtin' yourself
But wait, I love myself
That was the key, now we're switchin' back (Oh)
[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown's body (Oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday (Oh, Freaky Friday)
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways (No; I can't believe; oh yeah, oh yeah)
I can't believe that it's Freaky Friday (Oh yeah, yeah)

[Outro: Lil Dicky, Ed Sheeran, DJ Khaled, Kendall Jenner]
Wait, what the fuck?
And now I'm in Ed Sheeran's body
It's way less cool than being Chris Brown was
What the fuck? Again?
I'm DJ Khaled! Why am I yellin'?
Huh, I'm Kendall Jenner, I got a vagina
I'm gonna explore that right now (Woo, woo)
Holy shit, I got a vagina (Uh), I'm gonna learn
I'm gonna understand the inner workings of a woman116Embed