3 ContributorsBack Home LyricsIntro: (Ali Infamous)

The fuck is that?
Take that away, man. Take that away
You don’t need that. You don’t fuckin’ need that I told you
Listen up, (uh, yeaah)

First verse: (Ali Infamous)

Check out my techniques
Dont take me arrest me for the drugs or the rest b
Or G A to Z words which phase me
Plus, here is the moment, i got to own it
These traps n rats got me open
Bloods n tears soakin, finaly fiends focus
Bring out the dopest
Pure vibez melody n rhymez orcest
Verses like bricks dope pen
Flows like the riva, Persian wine, Persian rugs
Rollin dices keepin bucks, so im pourin ...
Here is the toast to the livin legends trapped in da system
Illegal bars prison
Karma places recycle enviroment sales me
Fuck racist im white black blue yellow satan
Yeah im rappin black blues jazz, thats ma fate man
I see hatin’, ova the faces, no love fo' the next generation
Grew up android raisin
Come on get out n make sum n bread sum sum
No matter how meny times you loosin’
It helps me producin’
Better records n beats dat suits me
I’m back home, I’m back home, Im back home
You might also likeSecond verse: (RAHMAT)

I ain’t really livin’ in my hometown
Don’t take me back to them days they’re gone now
Runnin’ from the rules they’re trynna chase me, no doubt
Illegal poemz
Not to show em ma soul gotta be sold out
But I gotta keep it real for sure imma hold down
For real ones, dont stop!
Told ali prophet I am! Muhammed! I’m solid n strong
Around the world the positivity gone pop as i stand
For ma rights
Streets gone feel me now
Its all real n wow we just dreamed about it
But suddenly it all happen
Bring out the soul outta ma mind, n start rappin’
U start dancin’
U draw magic
Graffiti n beatboxin’, we all talents
But they told me I’m a drop out, criminal !!!!
What i do is punishable,,,,?! Huh!!!!?
Where is home? U belong to wherever you gone
The world is yours
You’re wrong prejudice is a crone
Ma bitch is a blond (life’s a bitch)
N young n free, n known
For whatever the fuck we ever wanted to do, we on !!
Where u call it a home?
History or Future ?!
Which suitscha
This song
Was dedicated with homage to old persian poems
Plz take me back
Not Home...1Embed